Document using ScyllaDB APIs (#1787)
scylladb/scylla-operator: docs/source/clients/cql.md

# Using CQL

## Embedded cqlsh (aka localhost)

> Every ScyllaDB node has an integrated `cqlsh` available. Here is an example of how it can be used.

Author: fixed

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} Any ScyllaDB Node
```bash

> kubectl exec -it service/<sc-name>-client -c scylla -- cqlsh 

Author: added user, thx

```
:::
:::{tab-item} Specific ScyllaDB Node
```bash
kubectl exec -it pod/<sc-name>-<datacenter>-<node-index> -c scylla -- cqlsh
```
:::
::::
```text
Connected to scylla at 127.0.0.1:9042
[cqlsh 6.2.0 | Scylla 5.4.0-0.20231205.58a89e7a4231 | CQL spec 3.3.1 | Native protocol v4]
Use HELP for help.
cqlsh>
```

## Remote cqlsh

This paragraph shows how to use `cqlsh` to remotely connect to a ScyllaDB node.
It is strongly recommended to access CQL over TLS connections on port `9142` instead of unencrypted `9042`.
Note that Scylla Operator sets up TLS certificates by default and makes them accessible in the Kubernetes API,
so the encrypted port `9142` works by default.

> (In future releases the unencrypted port `9042` will be disabled by default, unless explicitly opted-in.)  

Reviewer: I'd skip the parentheses. If you want it to stand out, maybe use a attention/caution or whatever other admonition?

:::{note}

> This example uses Service ClusterIP to connect to the ScyllaDB cluster. If you have configured a different networking options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses Service ClusterIP to connect to the ScyllaDB cluster. If you have configured networking options differently,
```

Author: done

you may need to adjust this endpoint. Please refer to [discovery documentation page](./discovery.md).
:::

> :::{note}

Reviewer: nit: maybe use attention/important/tip instead?

Author: `attention` and `important don't render correctly for me :(
![Uploading Screenshot from 2024-03-08 14-46-25.png…]()

Reviewer: Ok, looking at https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/v2.0.0/syntax/admonitions.html#admonition-types I assumed they were. For the time being can you leave a comment there with an issue ref or something?

Author: It's a good assumption but :shrug:  (I'll leave it for now.)

@dgarcia360 do you know why `attention` and `important` admonitions don't render with our theme?

Reviewer 2: The teme only supports the following admonitions: https://sphinx-theme.scylladb.com/stable/examples/admonitions.html

Author: thanks
(I kind of with it would error out instead if those are forbidden, then display them halfway)
